Add Best Practice: Clarity on logger acquisition (#38391)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/best-practices/best_practices_general.adoc

=== Tags

<<tags_reference.adoc#tag:upgrades,`#upgrades`>>

[[obtain_loggers_via_logging_get_logger]]
== Obtain Loggers via `Logging.getLogger(Class)` outside of Tasks

Always obtain a link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/logging/Logger.html[`Logger`] by calling `Logging.getLogger(MyClass.class)` from inside each non-`Task` class that logs — plugins, build services, project extensions, and any other helper class — rather than reusing `project.logger` or `script.logger`.
Inside a `Task`, use the inherited link:{groovyDslPath}/org.gradle.api.Task.html#org.gradle.api.Task:logger[`Task.getLogger()`] instead.

=== Explanation

A logger obtained via `Logging.getLogger(MyClass.class)` is named after the class that owns it.
A logger obtained from `Project` or `Script` is named after that Gradle type and is shared by every class that reaches it that way.
Obtaining a class-named logger is what makes log output traceable to the code that produced it.

> `Task` is an exception to this rule as link:{groovyDslPath}/org.gradle.api.Task.html#org.gradle.api.Task:logger[`Task.getLogger()`] already returns a named logger for the task.

Reviewer: Can we be a little more descriptive, for example:
```suggestion
`Task` is an exception to this rule.
link:{groovyDslPath}/org.gradle.api.Task.html#org.gradle.api.Task:logger[`Task.getLogger()`] returns a logger whose underlying name is `org.gradle.api.Task` (shared across all tasks), but Gradle wraps it with per-task build-operation context, so console output is attributed to the specific task automatically.
Use it inside tasks without adding a class-named static field, unless you also need the concrete task class name to appear in raw log output or external log processors.
```

NOTE: Inline build scripts (`build.gradle(.kts)`) should use the script-scoped `logger` directly if there is no class to attach a static logger to.
This recommendation applies to code in compiled classes: `buildSrc`, convention plugins, included builds, and published plugins.

The `org.gradle.api.logging.Logger` interface extends `org.slf4j.Logger`, so you keep the full SLF4J API plus Gradle's `LIFECYCLE` and `QUIET` levels.

=== Example

==== Don't Do This

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/best-practices/obtainLoggersViaLoggingGetLogger-avoid/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=avoid-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/best-practices/obtainLoggersViaLoggingGetLogger-avoid/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=avoid-this]"]
====

<1> *Injecting `Logger` into a `BuildService`*: Fails at task execution time with `Services of type Logger are not available for injection into instances of type BuildService`.
<2> *Using `project.logger` from a plugin*: Yields a logger named for `Project`, not for the plugin class. The same pattern cannot be used in the plugin's constructor at all, since `Project` is not available there.

> <3> *Declaring a static `Logging.getLogger(MyTask.class)` inside a task*: Works, but is unnecessary. `Task.getLogger()` (inherited as `getLogger()`) already returns a class-named logger for the task type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> *Declaring a static `Logging.getLogger(MyTask.class)` inside a task*: Works, but is redundant for typical Gradle usage. `Task.getLogger()` (inherited as `getLogger()`) provides task attribution through build-operation context, so console output is grouped under the correct task heading without a separate field.
```

<4> *Reading `project.logger` inside a task action*: Works without the Configuration Cache, but fails as soon as the cache is enabled because accessing `Task.project` at execution time is unsupported.

==== Do This Instead

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/best-practices/obtainLoggersViaLoggingGetLogger-do/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=do-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/best-practices/obtainLoggersViaLoggingGetLogger-do/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=do-this]"]
====

<1> *Build service logger*: A `private static final` `Logger` named after `GreetingService`. No injection required; works regardless of how the service is registered.
<2> *Plugin logger*: A `private static final` `Logger` named after `GreetingPlugin`. Accessible from any context, including the plugin's constructor.

> <3> *Task uses the inherited `getLogger()`*: `Task.getLogger()` already returns a logger named for the task type. No static field needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> *Task uses the inherited `getLogger()`*: `Task.getLogger()` returns a logger named `org.gradle.api.Task`, but Gradle wraps it with per-task build-operation context so console output is attributed to the specific task. No static field needed.
```
